README.md, before:

# Tip Calculator in HTML/CSS/JavaScript

## MVP V1

### Functional Requirements

1. It should have a text field to input the bill total
   - Create a form with a "Bill Total" text input field
   - Give it an id of "billTotal"
2. It should have a radio button group to select the tip percentage
   - Create four radio buttons with labels in a group named "tipPercentage"
3. It should have a "Calulate Tip" button that runs a function onClick to calculate the tip percentage
   - Create a submit button with the text "Calculate Tip"
   - Write a calculateTip() function to get values from the billTotal and tipPercentage then multiplies them together and returns a totalTip value
   - Add an onClick to the button to call the function
4. It should have a "Total Tip" output field
   - Create a "Total Tip" div with a span for "Total Tip" label and a span for output of the totalTip value
   - Add the totalTip value calculated by the calculateTip() function
5. It should have a "Total Amount" output field
   - Create a "Total Amount" div with a span for a label and a span for an output of the totalAmount
   - Add a totalAmount calculation to the calculateTip() function

Commit message:

updated readme to give an overview of the project

README.md, after:

# Tip Calculator

Calculates tips based on a given bill amount and selected tip percentage.

**Link to project:** Deploying soon.

## How It's Made:

**Tech used:** HTML, CSS, JavaScript

I wanted to get back to basics and build something in vanilla HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. I planned out the layout via pen and paper and then wrote a list of the following requirements:

1. It should have a text input for the bill amount
2. It should have a radio button group to select the tip percentage
3. It should have a "Calulate Tip" button
4. It should have a "Total Tip" output div
5. It should have a "Total Amount" output div
6. It should have an event listener to run calculations and return data to output divs when button is clicked

## Lessons Learned:

In every project I come across little problems I need to solve and this is how I learn. I can read documentation all day, but I learn by solving a problem in the midst of a project. The following is a list of the little problems I solved along the way of coding this app:

- How to access the value of a checked radio button in JavaScript via .querySelector method
- Needed to convert strings to floats so I could multiply the billAmount by the tipPercentage. Used parseFloat() to accomplish this.
- I wanted the output of tipAmount and totalAmount to render as currency so I learned how to use the Intl.NumberFormat constructor.
- I refreshed my knowledge on how to style using vanilla CSS.
- Learned to style the radio buttons by looking at multiple examples and then building my own CSS. After this I wanted to line up my percentage labels with the radio buttons and figured this out using display: inline-block

Overall I had a blast building this project! It was fun to sit down and build something from scratch and learn along the way.
